LYNDIE VAN ORSOUW | MANAGER, FAMILY OFFICE, MUTUAL TRUST
Lyndie has in excess of 20 years’ experience in accounting and 
bookkeeping and specialises in developing finance solutions for Family 
Offices and family businesses.  
With a wealth of knowledge around accounting software, financial reporting, 
and business management, Lyndie is able to work closely with advisors across 
multiple disciplines including wealth management, tax accounting and property 
management.  Using platforms such as Xero and Praemium, she expertly tailors 
quality record keeping and invoice management systems.  This ensures that 
clients have robust financial management and valuable real-time reporting.  
Lyndie holds a Master of Business Administration (Finance), a Bachelor of 
Accounting, a Bachelor of Arts (Legal Studies), and is currently commencing 
a PhD with The University of Adelaide.  She is a Certified Practicing Accountant 
(CPA), and a Graduate of the Australian Institute of Company Directors, and has 
also completed a management certification with Harvard Business School.  
ELIZABETH GOLDFINCH | PARTNER, FAMILY OFFICE, MUTUAL TRUST
Elizabeth (Lizzy) has worked with significant families and family businesses, 
both nationally and internationally over the past decade, to decode what matters 
or is most important to them.  She is driven to help families and their emerging 
generations address both the opportunities as well as the challenges of wealth.  
Prior to joining Mutual Trust, Lizzy worked in the Private Wealth Management 
team at the Myer Family Company where she managed the investment portfolios 
of successful multi-generational families and not-for-profit organisations.  Prior 
to that, Lizzy was responsible for the delivery of wealth management and family 
continuity services to Queensland-based families who hold substantial property 
and business assets.  
Lizzy holds a Bachelor of Commerce & Bachelor of Economics (Dean’s 
Honour Role) from the University of Queensland, a Graduate Diploma in 
Financial Planning from Kaplan and is a Graduate of the Australian Institute 
of Company Directors.  
DR CHRIS GRAVES | ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR, UNIVERSITY OF ADELAIDE
Associate Professor Chris Graves is a Chartered Accountant, and director of 
the Family Business Education and Research Group [FBERG] at the University 
of Adelaide Business School.  Chris has a Bachelor degree in Accountancy 
from the former South Australian Institute of Technology, a Master degree in 
Economics from the University of New England, and a PhD from the University 
of Adelaide.  Chris has been serving as an external member of the University 
Council’s ‘Audit, Compliance and Risk’ sub-committee since 2014.  
Since joining the University of Adelaide in 2007, Chris has spent considerable 
time educating managers and owners of privately-owned firms.  Each year, he 
is actively involved in improving the financial literacy of owners and managers 
through the University’s Executive Education and Masters of Business 
Administration programs.  In 2015, in conjunction with Family Business Australia 
and the Government of South Australia, he introduced the NextGen eChallenge 
educational program to assist in the development of the next generation of 
entrepreneurial leaders in family-controlled enterprises.  In 2015, he developed 
an owner leadership development program (‘Catalyst’) in conjunction with the 
Government of South Australia, industry associations and business owners.  
With regard to research, Chris publishes in top international journals such 
as Family Business Review on issues surrounding the management and 
performance of family-controlled SMEs.  In 2006, he graduated with a PhD 
which investigated factors that limit the ability of family-owned SMEs to grow 
internationally, as well as the manner in which those obstacles can be overcome.  
His PhD research received an international award from the Family Firm Institute 
(FFI), based in the USA.  In 2013, 2015, and 2017 he undertook the KPMG-Family 
Business Australia ‘National Family Business Survey’ and was an academic 
advisor for KPMG International’s study investigating the role of private equity 
financing in family-controlled enterprises around the world.  He completed 
a four year term on the board of the International Family Enterprise Research 
Academy (ifera.org), the leading global network of family business scholars.  
As part of his specialisation in family business, Chris completed a Graduate 
Diploma in Family Therapy and Systemic Practice.  
55
54
Why The Modern Family Office Matters
Contributors to this report
