MUTUAL TRUST CASE STUDY 
Learning, engagement and fulfilment
John and Tillie O’Brien* immigrated to Australia in the 1960’s and started a small engineering 
business in the outer suburbs of Melbourne.  Over the next fifty years, they grew the business 
substantially and today they employ more than 400 people nationally.  John serves as the 
Executive Chairman and is very much involved in the day-to-day affairs of the business.  
Two of their four children also work in the business.  
Tillie spent many years as the Human Resources Manager until turning her attention to 
philanthropy.  One of the family’s closest friends, Joan, passed away from Parkinson’s disease 
— this impacted the family deeply.  As a consequence, Tillie established a Foundation to focus 
on helping people suffering from serious diseases.  
John and Tillie (now in their early eighties) and their four children (in their fifties) have been 
discussing what the next stage is for the family and how they might transition the family business 
and Foundation in the future.  John and Tillie have six grandchildren aged between 6 to 15 and 
they want to spend more time connecting with them, as they have realised through the death 
of Joan that life is not eternal.  They are also concerned about how their children will manage the 
business together beyond their lifetimes.  Tillie has noticed that her children’s generation is very 
different to her own.  She also worries that they have only ever enjoyed the trimmings of their 
family wealth and may not really understand how their family started out and what it took to get 
to the privileged position they are in today.  
John and Tillie sought help from their Multi-Family Office to organise a family retreat where they 
could all come together and discuss their top-of-mind issues and start important conversations.  
After consulting with all family members (including partners) on what mattered most and how 
to maximise engagement for everyone, the Multi-Family Office designed a program for the 
retreat.  This was a complex exercise, noting the family consisted of three generations across 
four family branches, with some working in the business and some, especially the partners and 
grandchildren, having limited knowledge of family affairs.  
The retreat was planned to ensure the first session had all family members in attendance.  
John and Tillie discussed their family history and Irish origins, sharing their family tree to give 
a sense of where they came from.  They also explained why they immigrated to Australia with 
limited financial capital and worked tirelessly to start their business.  They shared stories of 
their struggles to build the business and the challenges they faced in earning enough money 
to pay the rent, along with the hard work and persistence that was required to achieve what they 
have today.  It was really important for John and Tillie to share these stories to help their family 
understand where they came from and build awareness of their key values.  They hoped some 
of these values might flow through, and be fostered by, the family.  
John and two of his children who worked in the business then presented a summary of the 
business operations and discussed how it not only creates value for customers, but also supports 
the wider community by employing 400 people who depend on them for their livelihoods, 
in addition to paying taxes to support the economy.  
Tillie shared her story about how Joan’s demise and tautology caused by Parkinson’s disease 
had severely impacted her and explained how the O’Brien family was in a position where they 
could make a positive contribution to helping others suffering from Parkinson’s and other related 
diseases.  She explained how she gifted a large sum of money to a family Foundation so she 
could grant money to charities that help people like Joan.  
During a later session, the family separated into groups.  The children attended a session to share 
their expectations regarding the business and explore ways to respect John and Tillie’s legacy, 
whilst making the business work for them as a collective (across four branches).  This included 
discussion around whether to operate the business as is, expand, or even consider selling.  
The Multi-Family Office advisors facilitated the session, providing objectivity and a safe place for 
everyone (including partners) to voice their views.  Their goal was to start sketching out what the 
future plan might look like.  
Simultaneously, John and Tillie introduced their grandchildren to their Multi-Family Office advisory 
team and John explained the role of the family office and why it’s so important to the O’Brien family. 
John explained that the purpose of a Multi-Family Office is to help to grow and protect their 
family assets so they can be handed from one generation to the next in better shape than they 
received them.  The grandchildren discovered that, through this team of professional advisors, 
they could seek assistance with building an investment portfolio, buying a house, giving to or 
volunteering at charities and, importantly, call on them to help navigate uncomfortable issues 
with family members.  
The final session of the retreat involved all the O’Briens coming back together and sharing their 
experiences of the retreat.  Each family member was given the opportunity to raise what they 
enjoyed most and least; what they learnt about each other and their individual interests and 
aspirations; and how to best engage everyone.  
Unanimously the family agreed that they were all looking forward to the next retreat to build 
on what they had started.  
	* First and Family names have been changed for privacy reasons
47
46
Why The Modern Family Office Matters
Modern Family Office practices make a difference 
