Wealthy families have a significant positive socio-economic impact on Australia, but lasting 
impact depends on those families prospering for generations.  This is not guaranteed, 
however, and more intergenerational wealth transfers would succeed if families adopted 
a Family Office model that suits their needs.  
The selection of an appropriate Family Office model can greatly assist a wealthy family to 
perpetuate the positive contribution they make to society.  Choosing an appropriate Family 
Office model is not straight forward.  It depends on factors including: the size and source 
of wealth; complexity of family affairs; existing family expertise or preferences; and the 
degree to which family members want to be involved in the management of their wealth.  
Wealthy families who are seeking intergenerational success should take these factors into 
consideration when choosing a Family Office.  
A key advantage of a Multi-Family Office over other Family Office types is the depth and 
breadth of services that can be provided to Family Enterprises.  In addition, Multi-Family 
Offices can work together with other Family Office models, in that they may provide 
services to, for example, a Single Family Office or a Business Family Office to supplement 
in-house expertise.  
To further improve success over generations, wealthy families need a modern Family 
Office that not only manages and grows the family’s financial capital over the long-term, 
but also focuses on other equally important multi-faceted family matters that ensure 
intergenerational success.  This includes helping families to understand what matters most 
to them and how to use their wealth to achieve that purpose.  However, this is not enough.  
Other factors for intergenerational success include supporting entrepreneurship, promoting 
family harmony and unity, facilitating the learning, education and fulfilment of each family 
member, and having a positive impact on the community.  
To provoke self-assessment, there are five questions for wealthy 
families to answer:
1.	
Do you know what matters most to your family as a whole and to your individual 
family members?  
2.	 Do you have a way to develop a Family Strategy that is collaborative and involves 
the best multi-faceted expertise?  
3.	 Do you have an agreed, well-structured Family Strategy for achieving what matters 
most that will be successfully implemented during and beyond your lifetime?  
4.	 Do you have a way for the family to implement and evolve the Family Strategy 
in line with changing circumstances and family capacity? 
5.	 Do you know the best Family Office model now and over time for your family?
Conclusion
Despite the early-stage evolution of the Family Office sector in Australia, 
wealthy families can identify the success factors present in the modern Family 
Office and adopt these practices within varying Family Office models that suit 
them.  This will ensure a more positive family experience and greater likelihood 
of successful intergenerational wealth transfer.  Successful wealthy families can 
also challenge themselves and their advisors to develop these practices further 
to ensure that the positive socio-economic impact of their wealth in Australia 
continues to have a lasting impact.  
50
Why The Modern Family Office Matters
Conclusion
51
