“We have seen first hand that when Family 
Enterprises work together purposefully, they 
are a powerful force.  They deploy their capital 
to expand their businesses, employ people, 
build infrastructure, invest in innovation, back 
start-up ventures and give thoughtfully and 
strategically to charities.  As their success 
grows, they also pay more tax which stimulates 
the economy.  The economic multiplier effect 
of their pursuits and activity is considerable.”
PHIL HARKNESS, CEO AND MANAGING PARTNER, MUTUAL TRUST
“Just imagine the entrepreneurial, philanthropic, 
financial and personal energy that can be 
unlocked if every Family Enterprise has a clear 
sense of purpose for its wealth and a strategy  
to execute it.”
JEFF STEINER, PARTNER, HEAD OF FAMILY OFFICE, MUTUAL TRUST
Welcome
It is with great pleasure that we welcome readers to our Family Office Report.  It explores the 
practices adopted by wealthy families that enable them to succeed in passing their wealth 
on to future generations, and how the probabilities of success significantly improve with the help 
of a modern Family Office.  This report outlines the multi-faceted approach that a modern Family 
Office takes to assist families in creating a long-term strategy for their success.  It outlines the 
different configurations Family Offices can take and the criteria by which families can decide the 
model that would suit them best.  A first of its kind in Australia, the report draws on the academic 
research and findings of the University of Adelaide and has been prepared by Mutual Trust.  
Each generation faces serious wealth-preservation challenges which, if not carefully managed, 
can lead to the erosion not only of wealth but of family entrepreneurship, harmony and unity.  
There are also significant implications for Australia’s prosperity and societal welfare.  
Families of wealth are vital to the Australian economy, providing large numbers of jobs, capital, 
business innovation and community support.  This is put at risk if wealthy families are not 
effectively supported.  If the leading strategic practices of Australia’s most successful Family 
Offices are adopted by families of wealth, then more private capital will be grown and deployed  
– for the benefit of the families themselves, the economy and society.  
Mutual Trust, as a Multi-Family Office, has more than 100 years of experience in helping  
families successfully manage their intergenerational wealth by adopting our proven  
multi-faceted, purpose-led approach.  We express our gratitude for the contribution of our 
research partner, the University of Adelaide.  Our warmest appreciation goes to Mutual 
Trust’s clients who have put their deep trust in us.  We also thank many of you for your 
generous contribution to this publication in sharing your insights and experience.  
Yours sincerely,
Phil Harkness
Mutual Trust CEO 
and Managing Partner
Jeff Steiner
Partner, 
Head of Family Office
9
Welcome
8
Why The Modern Family Office Matters
