4.  Learning, engagement and fulfilment
Enabling individual family members to pursue their personal aspirations through 
education, the provision of opportunities, and following their passions so they can 
lead productive and fulfilled lives.  
For families to flourish, individual family members must also be set up for success.   
In recognising the need to engage all family members, particularly the rising generation, 
families can implement strategies to build knowledge and engagement, thereby preparing 
heirs to become responsible stewards of wealth.  This facet of the Mutual Trust Gemstone 
involves developing an understanding of individual family members’ aspirations, the degree of 
engagement that they seek in developing and implementing the Family Strategy, and the skills 
they need to achieve their aspirations and involvement.  As one participant in the research said:
“We’ve established a giving project where we’ll give them five hundred dollars each where 
they’re required to research a charity, complete a one-page summary they want to give 
to the charity, and report back to the family to explain why… That’s a process we’ll run 
from now until they’re eighteen, hoping that that will evolve into them understanding more 
about our values, what wealth is for, the community needs, and building unity by doing it 
as a family…  So, by the time they are sixteen, we can start getting them involved in more 
complex decisions regarding the Family Enterprise…  The aim is to develop them into well-
rounded individuals for the benefit of the present, but more importantly, future generations, 
personally and for the community.” 
Family Enterprise leader, Participant 20
The modern Family Office advisor helps support family members to form and express their 
goals and desires which then form part of the Family Strategy – something they may not have 
felt comfortable doing without the help of an independent third party.  Often this can involve 
disclosures that run counter to family expectations and require a carefully thought‑out process.  
An individual’s aspirations are not static, so this facet also requires the support of people 
through the various stages of life with personalised learning plans, expertise, and 
engagement among peer networks; which the modern Family Office can provide.  
Once a family can uncover individual aspirations and enhance the wellbeing of every family 
member on their journey to personal fulfillment, they will add significant value to the family as a 
whole.  It should also facilitate learning together in a way that nourishes the family’s and each 
family member’s creative energies.  Many wealthy families ask the modern Family Office to 
organise regular family retreats and study tours expressly for this purpose.  
A considered program of learning, engagement and fulfilment strategies will assist individuals and 
the family collectively to learn new skills and continue on a journey of personal growth.  Successful 
implementation of this facet will aid family members to effectively perform their responsibilities in 
helping to achieve the family’s continued success.  
43
42
Why The Modern Family Office Matters
Modern Family Office practices make a difference 
