MUTUAL TRUST CASE STUDY 
Impact of the Trentini Family
Upon their arrival in Australia, the Trentini* family purchased 150 hectares of land in south-western 
Victoria with the intention of establishing a dairy farm.  What they didn’t foresee was the profound 
positive impact the ongoing growth of the farm would have on their local community.  
Already experienced in dairy farming through their upbringing in Lombardia Italy, it didn’t take long 
for the Trentinis to build a successful farm which supplied dairy products to local businesses.  
Over time, as the farm grew in size and profitability, so did the Trentini family wealth.  What was 
once a small Family Enterprise had now become a key contributor to Victoria’s milk production.  
Through the success of this Family Enterprise, today the dairy farm provides more than 200 
local full-time jobs, paying generous wages and superannuation contributions to members 
of the community.  
The Trentinis are passionate about investing their wealth back into the region that first 
welcomed them in 1954.  They purchase their grain, equipment and other farm supplies from 
local businesses and hire local staff.  In 2004, they bought the tired town pub and invested 
a portion of their wealth into renovating and creating a welcoming space to bring the community 
together.  Over the following decade, they established a boutique B&B in addition to the pub, 
attracting tourists and visitors to the area.  This generated further opportunities for paid work 
and created more business for local suppliers.  
When fires swept through the region in 2018, the Trentinis used their pub to provide free 
accommodation and meals to locals who had lost their homes.  They were also in a position 
to donate a considerable sum of money to support local recovery and rehabilitation efforts.  
The third generation of the Trentini family remains actively involved in the community by 
sponsoring the local football and netball clubs, along with other community initiatives to ensure 
their family wealth continues to enrich and give back to the region they are proud to call home.  
	* Family name has been changed for privacy reasons.  
 
Lack of communication and trust within the family
60%
 
Failure to prepare inheritors
25%
 
Lack of shared family purpose
12%
 
Failures in financial planning, tax planning 
and investments
3%
12%
25%
3%
60%
REASONS WEALTH TRANSFERS 
ARE UNSUCCESSFUL iv
According to global research 97% of family 
wealth is lost due to non-financial reasons.  
Focusing on communication is vitally important.  It builds trust among  
family members, helps make family members’ aspirations clearer, and results 
in better decision making as there is better understanding within the family 
of the facts involved.  Every family (and each family member) has its own set 
of complexities, and transparent discussions can help to address concerns.  
The second most important factor for success is to ensure the younger 
members of the family are equipped with the tools and experience they 
need to lead and manage family wealth.  In doing so, families can focus on 
education and engagement of individual family members in conjunction with 
the family as a collective.  Families who build awareness around family affairs, 
history and legacy often break down the “generational barriers,” building 
trust and confidence that family wealth will be preserved, and future actions 
will align with the family’s Purpose of Wealth.  
The third most important success factor is defining the family’s Purpose 
of Wealth.  Each family member is different and driven in unique ways.   
A successful family can define the ‘how’ of applying their wealth for different 
familial purposes while leveraging the individual strengths of each family 
member.  They value their differences and support personal passions.   
This encourages each family member to live a productive, healthy  
and fulfilled life.  
In Mutual Trust’s experience, families who have addressed these  
non-financial challenges are more likely to thrive and be successful in 
passing their wealth to future generations than those who don’t.  And in turn, 
their positive socio-economic impact on Australia is more likely to continue.  
17
The positive socio-economic impact of wealthy families 
16
Why The Modern Family Office Matters
The positive socio-economic impact of wealthy families
