MUTUAL TRUST CASE STUDY 
Learning, engagement and fulfilment
Embracing the interests of their youngest family members enabled the Mireault* family 
to identify a clear purpose for their wealth.  
The members of the Mireault family have a diverse array of skills – from property 
expertise through to software engineering.  With two children in early adulthood, 
the parents faced the dilemma of whether to provide career opportunities through 
their Family Office or encourage them to explore their individual interests.  
Accommodating the first child within the Family Office was relatively easy.   
With prior experience and interest in the real estate industry, she was able to take 
on the responsibility of the family’s property portfolio.  The family formalised her role 
in line with market rates to agree clear responsibilities and provide transparency.  
There was less of a natural fit in the Family Office for the second child.  He was 
passionate about developing his own technology company – an interest which 
didn’t align with the goals of the broader family.  
Nonetheless, the parents felt it was important to provide their children with 
equal opportunities and engaged Mutual Trust to establish a Mireault family ‘bank’.   
This included a funding structure with clear terms that catered for successful and 
unsuccessful outcomes.  
Through this, they were able to lend their son the money required to build his new venture, 
on terms which would have been unavailable through a commercial bank.  
As his business grew and became profitable, the son was able to repay the loan with 
a commercial rate of interest and go on to successfully build his own business legacy.  
For the Mireault family, the purpose of their wealth was to give their children the support 
they needed to turn their passions into careers.  In doing so, the children are happy and 
engaged, and family dynamics remain strong.  
	* Family name has been changed for privacy reasons
MUTUAL TRUST CASE STUDY 
Learning, engagement and fulfilment
Unexpectedly widowed in her early 60s, Lara Edman* found herself 
responsible for her family’s wealth, without the financial literacy or experience 
to manage it with confidence.  
Throughout their forty-year union, Lara’s husband had always taken care of 
their finances.  As a prominent and experienced banking executive, it had 
seemed sensible that he would have this responsibility.  Both Lara and her 
husband had assumed there was plenty of time to worry about succession 
planning and estate management.  
Facing the shock of losing her life partner, along with suddenly becoming 
responsible for a significant amount of wealth, Lara was overwhelmed and 
fraught with worry.  
To add complication to the matter, Lara’s husband had been partway through 
a large and complex property investment deal, which required immediate 
action on her behalf.  
In reaching out to Mutual Trust, Lara knew that her advisors would help  
her to finalise the property investment deal and develop her family’s wealth 
management plan.  What she wasn’t prepared for however, were the 
opportunities she would be given to learn core wealth management  
concepts and undergo financial literacy training.  
Lara has now been a Mutual Trust client for seven years.  She regularly attends 
wealth management events and seminars, and her knowledge and experience 
continue to flourish.  
Becoming financially literate not only helped Lara to find her feet during one 
of the most challenging times in her life, but also empowered her to protect 
and grow her family’s wealth with confidence and purpose.  
Lara is now focussed on ensuring that her two adult daughters don’t 
eventually find themselves in the same situation.  Lara has recently started 
inviting them to her meetings with Mutual Trust advisors and seeking the 
support of the Rising Gen program so that when the time is right, her daughters 
will be ready to embrace the responsibility of managing the Edman family wealth. 
	* First and Family name has been changed for privacy reasons
45
Modern Family Office practices make a difference 
44
Why The Modern Family Office Matters
