Contributors to this report
PHIL HARKNESS | CEO & MANAGING PARTNER, MUTUAL TRUST
Phil is an experienced Senior Executive with over 30 years’ experience 
working in professional services.  In 2017, he joined Mutual Trust as the 
Chief Executive Officer.  
Phil has provided advisory services to clients internationally across a wide 
range of industries including financial services, resources, utilities, 
manufacturers, numerous public sector and government organisations, retail, 
and telecommunications organisations.  
Prior to Mutual Trust, Phil spent five years as a Partner with EY (Ernst & Young).  
Phil joined EY in 2012 to lead the Oceania Performance Improvement practice 
within the Advisory Service Line and to start the Strategy Consulting practice.  
Phil’s responsibilities were expanded to include the Customer practice across 
Oceania and APAC and a global role as the leader of an important EY strategy 
offering – Purpose Lead Transformation.  Phil was also the Diversity and Inclusion 
Leader for EY Advisory in Oceania.  
Phil holds a Bachelor of Agricultural Science from LaTrobe University and 
a Master of Business Administration from the Melbourne Business School  
(Winner of the CRA Prize for top student in corporate strategy).  
JEFF STEINER | PARTNER, HEAD OF FAMILY OFFICE, MUTUAL TRUST
Jeff helps high net worth families navigate the complex landscape of 
intergenerational wealth transfer amidst ever-changing economic cycles.  
His mission is to maximise success in preserving, growing and transferring 
the family’s legacy in a harmonious and orderly way.  
Jeff has spent more than 25 years in family advisory and Family Office 
management.  He is a highly sought after and acknowledged global thought 
leader in this space.  He partners with wealth owners and their families to plan 
and achieve their long-term goals across all aspects of their wealth, including 
their family, businesses, investments and philanthropy.  Jeff has deep expertise 
in managing family dynamics and is passionate about family unity and aligning 
families values with their wealth.  
Jeff currently serves as an independent chair and is a member of family Boards 
and not-for­ profit organisations.  He holds a Bachelor of Commerce, is a Certified 
Practicing Accountant, a registered tax agent and a graduate of the Australian 
Institute of Company Directors.  
BRAD SIMMONS | PARTNER, HEAD OF SOUTH AUSTRALIA, MUTUAL TRUST
Brad is passionate about helping families meet the challenges of managing 
wealth across generations.  Having worked within both a single Family Office  
and Australia’s largest Multi-Family Office, Brad has a unique perspective 
on family wealth.  
Drawing on his expertise in finance, corporate law, family governance and 
succession, Brad helps to integrate the affairs of families across a range of 
disciplines, including family strategy, investment management, tax accounting, 
philanthropy and trustee services.  
After six years with Mutual Trust in Melbourne as a Partner in the Family Office 
team, Brad returned home to Adelaide in December 2018 to establish a South 
Australian office for the firm.  
Brad holds a Bachelor of Laws, a Master of Applied Finance and Investment 
and a Diploma of Financial Planning.  He has also completed a Family Business 
Directors Course with Family Business Australia and a Leadership Development 
Program with the Melbourne Business School.  
TRACY CONLAN | PARTNER, HEAD OF STRATEGY, MUTUAL TRUST
Tracy is responsible for developing and assisting the business to implement 
long-term business strategies.  In her role, she expedites implementation in 
the business via strategic advice, new venture investments and other corporate 
development programs, including corporate transformation.  
Tracy joined Mutual Trust in 2018 and is an experienced banker, strategy 
consultant and general manager.  She spent her formative years at McKinsey 
where her functional specialty was strategy and her industry focus was financial 
services.  Tracy is an experienced strategy and financial services professional 
with more than 20 years in consulting and industry.  Tracy has broad financial 
services experience ranging from EGM roles in corporate strategy, brand and 
marketing for the CBA, to projects with other large Australian banks, several 
regionals, credit unions, wealth and payments organisations.  She has also 
undertaken consulting projects in Australia, London, Stockholm and Brussels 
while working at McKinsey, EY and Deloitte.  
Tracy holds an MBA from London Business School, a Post Graduate Diploma 
in Finance and Administration from the Securities Institute of Australia, and 
a Bachelor of Economics (Hons 1st) from the University of Sydney.  
53
52
Why The Modern Family Office Matters
Contributors to this report
