5.  Community impact
Giving the family’s time, treasure, talent and ties to make a positive impact 
on society through creating jobs, supporting philanthropic causes, investing 
responsibly, serving in the community and paying taxes.  
The University of Adelaide research highlights the importance that wealthy families place 
on having community impact to realise what matters most to them.  This can be through 
the creation of jobs and opportunities within their businesses or, less directly, through the 
economic impact of the taxes they pay.  The University of Adelaide research reported – 
wealthy families contributed $3.6 billion – $5 billion in Australian taxes in 2020.  
Wealthy families have also enhanced the positive societal impact they can have due 
to their increasing levels of interest and participation in responsible investments, 
particularly in companies that create shared value.  These are companies that are profitable 
and generate good investment returns while making the world a better place.  This is 
highlighted in the research, where one person said:
“…there are more and more families who are looking for impact investments…   
there’s a pool of capital that’s becoming available there to benefit people who need 
it – organisations who are doing good work for the environment, for disadvantaged 
communities… So, I think [the] Family Office is playing a really important part of 
seeding the investment that is needed for social change.” 
Family Office advisor, participant 10
Traditionally, however, community impact for wealthy families has been achieved through 
philanthropy.  Philanthropic activity allows family members to work together with a shared 
purpose to create a lasting positive impact.  It can be a unifying force for family harmony 
as well as an expression of an individual’s specific passions.  Serving the community is 
also a protective factor against the modern malaise of anxiety and depression, as well 
as providing a platform to develop the values, perspective, work ethic and skills of the 
younger generation of family members.  
Philanthropy is more than giving money to a worthy cause.  Many wealthy family members 
also give their time and expertise by serving on Boards or committees of philanthropic 
organisations.  The modern Family Office assists wealthy families not just with giving, but 
also with their philanthropy strategy, to ensure it aligns closely with the family’s values and 
purpose, and is executed professionally and with maximum impact.  This involves facilitated 
family strategy sessions, followed by development of a detailed execution plan which the 
Family Office helps to implement.  
“[Philanthropy] was an excellent way to educate the kids a bit and give back 
something to the community.  The Multi-Family Office does all the admin, and 
we have governance meetings to identify charities or organisations that meet 
the regulatory framework and the rules [we’ve established]… they’re pretty good.  
The kids quite enjoy it, and… it’s been a great way to educate them on other aspects 
such as why you might use trust structures to protect assets.” 
Family Enterprise leader, participant 13
MUTUAL TRUST CASE STUDY 
Community impact
Passionate about supporting young people with intellectual disabilities, the Alroy* family funded 
research to identify where their giving could have the greatest impact.  They then set about 
making these changes through an innovative philanthropic approach.  
Tired of observing the barriers their own family member faced in navigating life with an intellectual 
disability, the Alroys made the decision to advocate for change.  
The Alroys recognised they were just one piece of the puzzle when it came to making a real 
difference in this space.  Through their family foundation, they decided to partner with a large 
not-for-profit and fund research into how to best support children with intellectual disabilities.  
The report highlighted a significant gap in support available during the transition from 
school to work.  
Armed with this research, they created a round-table forum.  Bringing together people with 
lived experience, consultants from not-for-profits, government agencies and reputable service 
providers, they worked together to identify the best course of action to take.  
It was decided to focus on increasing the ability of employers to offer work to young people with 
intellectual disabilities.  They went out to market for expressions of interest from organisations that 
could help them achieve this goal via grants.  The panel of grant application reviewers included 
the Alroys and again, people with lived experience and industry service providers.  
The Alroys invited four shortlisted applicants to undertake invaluable pitch training and then 
attend an event where they could use their new skills to pitch to the philanthropists in attendance. 
The results were significant.  Each of the four grant applicants received more funding than 
originally requested and the scale of change introduced by the Alroys was far greater than the 
act of simply donating money to a cause.  
The experience of collaborating with the right people and sharing the opportunity with other 
philanthropists to maximise the impact of their work was a tremendously rewarding experience 
for the Alroys and brought each family member a great sense of fulfilment.  
	* Family name has been changed for privacy reasons
49
Modern Family Office practices make a difference 
48
Why The Modern Family Office Matters
