SECTION 1
The positive socio-economic  
impact of wealthy families 
Wealthy families have a significant positive 
socio‑economic impact on Australia 
Families of wealth are vital to the Australian economy:
•	 Their Family Enterprises provide large numbers of jobs to the private 
sector, employing 6.32 million Australians.  
•	 As a result, they pay AU$294 billion in wages, 48.3% of total 
private‑sector wages each year.  
•	 They play an important role in the Australian private equity and venture 
capital sector, providing 7% of the total sector funding.  Also providing 
essential funding to small projects and businesses not supported by 
those private equity and venture capitalists who favour bigger projects.  
•	 Wealth invested outside their operating businesses have a significant 
impact on the economy. The 350 largest Family Offices manage between 
AU$515 billion and AU$695 billion of wealth outside their operating 
businesses.  The investment of this wealth led to 446,000 to 600,000 
new full-time jobs, which in turn generated AU$38 billion to AU$51 billion 
in further wages and AU$3.6 billion to AU$5 billion in additional tax 
payments (excluding personal income tax).  
•	 They contribute around AU$1 billion each year to educational support 
and poverty alleviation for those most disadvantaged, as well as 
scientific research, technological advancements, arts and health-oriented 
philanthropic activities.  
Research undertaken by the University of Adelaide shows that every one 
percentage point improvement in annual return on the wealth managed 
by Australian Family Offices will result in:
•	 The creation of between 35,700 to 48,000 full-time jobs; 
•	 AU$3.1 billion to AU$4.1 billion in wages; 
•	 AU$5.8 billion to AU$7.8 billion in Gross Domestic Product; and 
•	 AU$290 million to AU$390 million in direct taxes (excluding personal 
income tax).  
The total number of Australia’s wealthy families is expected to increase 
by 28.5% from 2020 to 2024 adding a multiplier effect to these benefits.  
The impact of family wealth is more than economic.  It includes 
involvement in philanthropic and responsible investment activities, 
with family members working together with a shared purpose to achieve 
an impact in the communities in which they live, and build self-efficacy of 
the next generation of family members.  
13
12
Why The Modern Family Office Matters
The positive socio-economic impact of wealthy families 
