The reality is many Family Enterprises do not have an appropriate Family Office 
model in place to effectively manage their wealth for the future.  This is because:
•	 they are not aware of alternative Family Office models and 
configurations and/or
•	 they struggle to transition to a more appropriate model and/or
•	 believe it is too costly and/or 
•	 the broader family does not support a change to wealth-managing 
transformation.  
It is my hope that this research contributes towards a better understanding 
of the nature and purpose of Family Offices and how the selection of an 
appropriate Family Office model with modern practices, can assist a Family 
Enterprise to achieve what matters most to the family as well as boost the 
positive societal contribution they make.  
I would like to thank the Government of South Australia and Mutual Trust 
for funding this important piece of research.  I would also like to thank the 
Family Enterprise advisors and leaders who willingly gave up their time to 
be interviewed as part of this research.  This project has been a great example 
of how industry, government and academia can work together to advance 
knowledge for the betterment of society.  
Dr. Christopher Graves
Associate Professor – Entrepreneurship & Family Enterprise 
Head of Entrepreneurship, Innovation and Family Enterprise Discipline 
Head of Family Business Education & Research Group (FBERG) 
The University of Adelaide Business School
Introduction
As highlighted in the research findings of this study, Family Enterprises 
are a significant contributor to Australia’s prosperity and societal wellbeing.  
Consequently, the continuity of Australian Family Enterprises is in 
everyone’s interests.  
With the ‘great wealth transfer’ upon us, where an estimated AUD$3.5 trillion 
of wealth globally is anticipated to be passed between generations from 
now until 2030, it is more important than ever for Family Enterprises to adopt 
an appropriate Family Office model to assist them in planning, managing, 
transferring and perpetuating the contribution of their wealth across generations. 
By adopting an appropriate Family Office model for managing their wealth, 
Family Enterprises can multiply the impact their wealth has on the broader 
economy.  This research highlights that every one percentage point improvement 
in annual return on the wealth managed by Australian Family Offices results in 
greater employment opportunities by way of job creation and therefore  
an increase in Gross Domestic Product and tax contributions.  
11
10
Why The Modern Family Office Matters
Introduction
