6.32
MILLION
AUSTRALIANS EMPLOYED
by Family Enterprises  
in the private sector.  
7% 
OF TOTAL FUNDING 
provided to Australian Private Equity 
& Venture Capital sector.
$294
BILLION
IN WAGES PAID
48.3% of total private-sector 
wages each year.  
THE 350 LARGEST FAMILY OFFICES INVEST IN NON-FAMILY-OWNED ENTERPRISES
$515–695
BILLION
INVESTED
outside their operating  
businesses in 2021.  
446,000–600,000 NEW JOBS 
at full-time capacity created, which in 
turn generated AU$38 billion to  
AU$51 billion in further wages.  
$3.6–5.0
BILLION
IN TAX PAYMENTS
excluding personal income tax.  
28.5%
EXPECTED INCREASE IN THE NUMBER OF 
AUSTRALIA′S WEALTHY FAMILIES BY 2024
adding a multiplier effect to these benefits.  
Lasting positive socio-economic impact depends 
on wealthy families prospering for generations  
With AUD $3.5 trillion of wealth expected to pass between generations in Australia 
over the next two decadesi, there are significant economic and societal well-being 
benefits at risk if this intergenerational wealth transfer is not managed effectively.  
A wealth transfer is unsuccessful if it involuntarily removes a family’s wealth from 
the control of the beneficiariesii.  If the form of a family’s assets is changed, e.g. a 
family business is sold and converted to cash, that is a recycling of wealth, not an 
unsuccessful transfer.  Similarly, if families choose to ‘unbundle’ their assets, e.g.  
distribute capital to family branches or individual beneficiaries, then that is a change 
in the ownership structure, not an unsuccessful transfer.  
Of the reasons why intergenerational wealth transfers are not successful, 60%iii are 
attributed to two key things; a lack of communication and/or a breakdown of trust.   
The remaining 40% is attributed to insufficient preparation of heirs (25%); families not 
defining their Purpose of Wealth (12%); and, poor investment advice (3%).  Many families 
focus on just the 3% driver of wealth – investment advice – rather than the more 
important components that contribute to success.  
Families of wealth are vital 
to the Australian economy
15
14
Why The Modern Family Office Matters
The positive socio-economic impact of wealthy families
