Methodology
The research referred to in this report comprises two primary research 
reports authored by Associate Professor, Dr. Chris Graves, from the 
University of Adelaide: 
1.	
The Phase 1 report: The Role of Family Offices used research derived 
from three resources: insights gained from previous survey reports of 
the Australian Family Office sector; insights gained from a review of the 
latest literature on Family Enterprises and Family Offices from around the 
world; and insights gained from interviews conducted by the University 
of Adelaide with Family Office experts in the field both in Australia 
and overseas. Interviews were transcribed and analysed using NVivo. 
This process identified several themes that were grouped according to the 
broad research questions that were the focus of Professor Graves’ study.
2.	 For the University of Adelaide’s Phase 2 report: Insights from Family 
Enterprise Leaders, information provided was derived from insights 
gained from interviews of ultra-high-net-worth (“UHNW”) family leaders. 
Specifically, a qualitative analysis of interviews with 27 family leaders was 
undertaken by the University of Adelaide.  
The University of Adelaide’s two-phased reports received funding and  
in-kind support from Mutual Trust and received a research grant from the South 
Australian Government’s Research and Commercialisation and Start-up Fund.  
This report was written and produced by Mutual Trust.  In addition to containing 
research and data from the University of Adelaide, it features insights of 
senior advisors who have deep expertise supporting some of Australia’s 
wealthiest families, outlining the framework Mutual Trust uses to help UHNW 
families formulate their strategies for success.  This includes encouraging 
and empowering family members to flourish – professionally and personally 
– as well as underpinning the continued growth and transfer of significant 
wealth to future generations.  
All participants quoted in this report have provided their consent to disclose 
their story, however, details such as names and places have been changed 
for privacy reasons.  
Mutual Trust’s definition of a Family Office
The functional infrastructure made up of people, systems and processes 
that supports a Family Enterprise in planning, managing, transferring and 
perpetuating wealth in an integrated way across generations to achieve what 
matters most to the family, as well as sustain the positive contributions they 
make to society.  
The support from a Family Office can extend to family advisory, family 
governance and decision-making processes, education of family members, 
intergenerational wealth transfers, asset protection, philanthropy, financial 
administration, tax compliance and investment management.  A Family Office 
is not necessarily a legal entity, physical location or organisational structure, 
although it will often take on many of these traits as a family’s wealth grows.  
What is a Family Enterprise? 
A Family Enterprise is defined as the collective activities of a family of 
significant wealth or an individual of significant wealth and their family members.  
These activities encompass the family’s entrepreneurial, philanthropic and 
investment endeavours, governance, taxation compliance, development 
of the rising generation and succession and estate planning, and family 
engagement pursuits.  
The term ‘Family Enterprise’ may also encompass the family’s 
operating businesses.
5
4
Why The Modern Family Office Matters
Mutual Trust and The University of Adelaide Business School
