
===== PAGE 1 =====
 
Protecting intergenerational wealth through times of change 
1 
Protecting intergenerational wealth through times of change 
As outlined in our paper Prosperity Investing | The Mutual Trust Wealth Story, focusing on 
wealth alone doesn’t guarantee a family’s long-term success.   
While investment advice and market movements certainly influence outcomes, they only 
form part of the picture.  In our experience working with families across generations, the 
erosion of wealth can occur subtly – particularly during periods of transition or disruption.   
A disruptive event might be a business sale, significant inheritance, or something more 
personal such as death, divorce or declining capacity.  These events often expose gaps in 
preparedness, governance and communication that can materially impact outcomes.   
Below, we explore some of the common risks that can impact capital over time, along with 
practical steps to help families manage them successfully. 
Robust governance supports better decision-making 
Differences in priorities and attitudes to risk can create friction between family members – 
particularly during times of change.   
Strong governance provides a shared framework for decision-making.  It helps families to 
define clear investment objectives, agree on a shared risk profile and develop a 
coordinated strategy.  It also reduces reliance on a single decision-maker, supporting 
continuity across generations.  
Importantly, engaging family members early builds understanding and confidence, 
particularly for those who may one day need to step into decision-making roles.   
A clear strategy to support periods of transition 
A well-defined investment strategy acts as a roadmap, empowering families with discipline 
to stay the course.  This is especially relevant following a liquidity event, such as a business 
sale.  While these events create opportunity, they can also introduce complexity through: 
• A sudden shift from operating assets to managing financial capital 
• Diverging views across generations on how wealth should be used 
• The loss of the business as a platform that once unified the family 

===== PAGE 2 =====
 
Protecting intergenerational wealth through times of change 
2 
Without a clear strategy, families can feel practically and emotionally unprepared. 
At its core, an effective investment strategy should reflect the family’s purpose, values and 
long-term objectives, while considering their full balance sheet.  Just as importantly, it 
should be understood by current and future decision-makers.  
Reframing reactions to volatility 
Market volatility can understandably trigger concern, particularly alongside periods of 
uncertainty or personal change.  
Emotional responses, such as panic selling or becoming overly conservative, can erode 
long-term value.  This risk is heightened when individuals are required to make decisions 
without prior experience and during a difficult time, such as after the loss of a partner.  
A clear investment strategy helps anchor decision-making, supporting a disciplined, long-
term approach that protects wealth for generations.  It also allows families to view volatility 
as an opportunity, whether through portfolio rebalancing or maintaining exposure to growth 
assets.   
Preparing for major life events 
Big life events, such as death, divorce or declining capacity can adversely impact family 
wealth if not planned for.  For example, a family member may find themselves inheriting 
responsibility for significant wealth without any prior involvement or education.  Under this 
scenario of heightened stress, they may find themselves also trying to navigate:   
• Outdated or poorly understood structures 
• Limited involvement of key family members 
• Lack of clear communication 
• No documented investment strategy 
Coordinated, multi-disciplinary advice — combined with early engagement and education — 
is critical to navigate these transitions successfully and engage in effective decision-making. 
Looking forward with confidence 
True success is not measured by returns alone, but by the extent to which wealth supports 
a family’s purpose and aspirations – particularly through periods of change. 
With clear strategy, strong governance and a disciplined approach, families can navigate 
disruption with confidence and sustain wealth across generations. 
At Mutual Trust, we work closely with families to bring these elements together through our 
Prosperity Investing approach — providing integrated advice, structure and support tailored 
to each family’s circumstances.     

===== PAGE 3 =====
 
Protecting intergenerational wealth through times of change 
3 
If you would like to discuss how we can support your family’s long-term objectives, we 
encourage you to speak with your Relationship Manager. 
Michael Downes 
Partner, Wealth 
Mutual Trust 
 
 
 
Melbourne 
Level 32 
360 Collins Street 
Melbourne VIC 3000 
T +61 3 9605 9500 
Sydney 
+61 2 9224 7600 
Brisbane 
+61 7 2115 1100 
Adelaide 
+61 8 7082 3900 
Perth 
+61 8 9230 7788 
 
info@mutualtrust.com.au  
www.mutualtrust.com.au  
ABN: 71 004 285 330  AFSL: 234590 
© 2026 Mutual Trust Pty Ltd. 
Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation. For participating members (other than for the acts or omissions of Australian Financial Services 
Licensees). This information is general in nature and subject to change. It does not constitute tax, legal or financial advice. We recommend you seek specific advice before taking any 
action. For a copy of our Financial Services Guide, please visit our website at mutualtrust.com.au. 
Mutual Trust acknowledges and pays respect to the past and present Traditional Custodians and Elders of this nation and the continuation of cultural, spiritual and educational 
practices of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples. 
 
Interested in learning more? 
Tune in to Episode 20 of the Mutual Trust Purpose of Wealth 
podcast, where Olympian and Partner at Mutual Trust, Peter 
Antonie OAM, explores the importance of teamwork, discipline and 
goal setting in achieving success.  
Click here to listen. 
