
===== PAGE 1 =====
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 
Perspective from…Brendan Henderson, Partner, Tax 
 
 
Perspective from… 
Preventing the Double Death Tax Trap 
Brendan Henderson, Partner, Tax 
 
Transferring wealth from one generation to another as part of an estate plan is a significant event for 
families.  In addition to grieving the passing of a loved one, families have to contend with the stress 
of ensuring a smooth transfer of wealth under a Will, from the deceased to their surviving spouse or 
children.  At such a sensitive time, the last thing the family needs is an unnecessary tax bill. 
 
In this article, I explore the unexpected tax trap that can arise in ‘double death’ situations, and what 
families can do to prevent it from springing. 
 
Tax treatment on death 
 
Currently, when an individual dies, the assets they own at the time of their passing are transferred to 
their beneficiaries effectively tax-free.  The beneficiaries inherit the deceased’s cost base of the 
assets passing to them.  If they assets were acquired before 19 September 1985 (i.e. prior to the 
introduction of Capital Gains Tax [CGT]), beneficiaries are granted a cost base equal to the market 
value of that asset at the date of death.  For simplicity, we refer to this as a CGT rollover. 
 
If the asset was the deceased’s main residence, this concessional status can be maintained - 
depending on who inherits the property and whether it continues to be used as a main residence. 
 
The CGT rollover is a commonsense policy – it defers tax until the asset is sold, when cash is 
available to fund the liability.  Without this concessional treatment, a tax liability would arise on the 
passing of the asset from the deceased to the beneficiaries.  This tax liability would need to be 
funded by the beneficiaries, often requiring the asset to be sold.  For some asset classes that aren’t 
easily saleable, this can be problematic. 
 
Unfortunately, there are situations where the CGT rollover on death is not available.  One example is 
the ‘double death’ tax. 
 
What is ‘double death’ tax? 
 
If a beneficiary of a deceased estate passes away before probate is granted to the first deceased 
estate, CGT can apply at the time the asset passes from the second deceased to the beneficiaries 
under their Will.  This CGT would not have been payable if probate had been granted before the 
beneficiary of the first deceased estate passed away. 

===== PAGE 2 =====
 
2 
Perspective from…Brendan Henderson, Partner, Tax 
I will use the following example to illustrate the challenge. 
 
What causes this tax issue? 
 
The reason why Jenna’s Estate/Lilly is trapped with this tax problem is because under a tax ruling 
issued in 1990, the Commissioner’s view is that the CGT rollover relief only applies if Jenna ‘owned’ 
the holiday home at the time of her passing.  As probate hadn’t yet been granted on Harry’s Will 
when Jenna passed away, Jenna is not regarded as the owner of the holiday home at that time.  
Accordingly, the ‘ordinary’ CGT disposal rules apply. 
 
If probate had been granted to Jenna by the time of her death, the CGT rollover treatment would 
have been available on the transfer of the holiday home to Lilly under Jenna’s Will. 
 
 
The Holiday House Example 
 
Harry is married to Jenna and they have an adult daughter (Lilly).  Harry also has an adult son 
(Peter) from his first marriage. 
 
In 1990, Harry purchased a family holiday home in Sorrento, Victoria for $100,000.  Over time, 
the holiday home increased in value to $1m. 
 
Unfortunately, Harry became ill and passed away suddenly.  Under his Will, Harry bequeathed 
the holiday home to Jenna and his remaining assets (including cash) to Peter. 
 
Two months later, before probate could be obtained on Harry’s Will, Jenna also passes away. 
 
Under Jenna’s Will, the house passes to Lilly.  She is appointed as Executor of Jenna’s Estate. 
 
When the holiday home passes from Jenna’s estate to Lilly, Jenna’s estate will be liable to pay 
tax of up to $211,500 on the capital gain (that is, tax on the difference between Harry’s cost base 
of $100,000 and the market value of $1m).   
 
With Harry’s liquid assets passing to Peter, Lilly must either come up with $211,500 to pay the tax 
bill, or sell the home to generate sufficient cash. 
 
The ‘double death’ tax trap – how it works 
Harry purchases 
holiday home for 
$100k
Jenna receives 
holiday home
First death
Harry passes 
away – asset is 
valued at $1m
Jenna dies 
before probate  
is granted
Second death
Lilly receives 
holiday home    
+ $211,500 tax 
bill
Peter receives 
other assets
With liquid assets passed to Peter, Lilly 
may need to sell the cherished holiday
home to access funds for the tax bill.

===== PAGE 3 =====
 
Melbourne 
Level 32 
360 Collins Street 
Melbourne VIC 3000 
T +61 3 9605 9500 
Sydney 
Level 18 
126 Phillip Street 
Sydney NSW 2000 
T +61 2 9224 7600 
Perth 
Ground Floor 
22 Stirling Highway 
Nedlands WA 6009 
T +61 8 9230 7700 
Adelaide 
Level 20 
83 Pirie Street 
Adelaide SA 5000 
T +61 8 7082 3900 
info@mutualtrust.com.au 
www.mutualtrust.com.au 
Prepared in Australia by Mutual Trust Pty Ltd (ACN 004 285 330) (AFSL 234590).  It is general information only and has been prepared without considering any 
particular persons’ objectives, financial situation or needs.  It does not constitute, and should not be relied upon as personal financial product, taxation or legal advice.  
Before making any decision you should obtain personal financial, taxation and legal advice.  For more information about the services Mutual Trust provides, please 
contact us or visit our website, www.mutualtrust.com.au.  Liability Limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation.  For participating members 
(other than for the acts or omissions of Australian Financial Services Licensees). 
© 2025 Mutual Trust Pty Ltd. 
 
Other examples 
 
While these examples relate to a holiday home, the same issue can arise for other assets, such as 
Harry & Jenna’s main residence.  In fact, in this scenario, Jenna’s Estate could potentially end up 
paying tax on a gain derived on the property she lived in with Harry as their main residence.  
 
What if Harry had purchased the holiday home before the introduction of CGT in September 1985.  
Would Jenna’s estate now be liable for tax on a property Harry had owned pre-CGT? 
 
What if Harry and Jenna lived overseas at the time of their passing and Lilly lived in Australia?  Lilly 
could potentially be subject to tax of up to $475,000 on her inheritance of the holiday home. 
 
What can be done? 
 
In some scenarios, it may be possible to prevent or manage the double death tax trap under a range 
of strategies, including the use of testamentary trusts, transferring assets outside of a Will or by 
holding valuable assets in discretionary trusts rather than personally. 
 
Unfortunately, it’s rarely possible to predict when a double death situation may arise.  That’s why 
careful estate planning and proactive management are essential to reduce the risk of triggering an 
unexpected tax liability.   
 
Mutual Trust works with families to carefully review and adjust estate plans to appropriately 
manage tax risks such as the double death scenario.  If you are preparing or reviewing your 
estate plans and would like to explore whether any of these strategies are appropriate to your 
circumstances, please contact your Relationship Manager.  
 
Brendan Henderson 
Partner, Tax 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
